Professor: When you run a script
in EarSketch,
it creates a visual
representation of your music
in the Digital Audio
Workstation, or “DAW” view.
It also gives you controls
in that DAW view
for playing back your music.
I want to walk through
some of this functionality
in more detail now.
At the top,
we have the transport controls
that control playback.
We have a rewind button to go
back to the beginning.
The play function.
[techno synth melody]
And when I click that again,
it pauses the playback.
I have volume control here.
I’m going to turn down
that volume,
so that we can hear things
a little bit better now.
[techno synth melody]
And there’s also a mute here,
which completely silences
the sound.
We’re going to turn it back on.
I can enable or disable looping.
When it’s enabled,
when I get to the end,
it will loop back
to the beginning.
There’s a metronome here
that will click on every beat
of the music
when it’s turned on.
So those are the transport
controls in a nutshell.
Now, let me go through
the tracks view here.
So we have four tracks
in this particular song.
One, two, three,
and four.
And generally, each track
corresponds
to a different instrument
or a different layer
of your music.
You decide when you call
EarSketch functions
what track they’re going
to place audio or effects onto.
So we can see the four tracks
here, the different sounds
that have been placed
onto each track
represented by these waveforms
and the names of the sounds
that are displayed as well.
We can also see effects
that are placed onto tracks,
in this case just onto one
track, track three.
That says volume-gain effect.
It’s showing up underneath track
three,
changing the volume of track
three.
And we can also do a few other
things
as we’re looking through here.
We can solo individual tracks.
So if I solo track one,
that means that only track one
will play back,
and tracks two, three, and four
will all be muted.
If I mute track one,
that means that track one
will not play back at all,
but I’ll continue to hear
tracks two, three, and four.
I can also bypass effects,
which is kind of like disabling
an effect temporarily.
So if I bypass this volume
effect,
I’ll no longer hear the volume
change there.
It’ll just go back
at the original volume
as I listen to it.
I can also hide all the effects.
That doesn’t disable them,
but that gives me more space
to see all my tracks,
especially if I have a lot
of tracks.
One final thing I want to point
out is this big red line.
That’s called the “playhead,”
and it shows me where I am
in the music in my timeline.
The numbers up here show
measures of music.
Each measure is four beats
typically.
In EarSketch it’s always
four beats.
So as I’m playing back,
I can see that playhead moving
to show me exactly where I am
in the music.
I can also click different
places
to jump to different spots
in the playback.
So that’s a brief tour of
the EarSketch DAW interface.